Joe Biden says Gaza and the West Bank
should be reunited under a single
governance structure as work continues
towards a two State solution let's go to
John hullman who's in Washington D DC
with more on this and John President
Biden calling for this reunited
structure for governance what else did
he have to
say well I think he also had an answer
for uh president Mahmud abas that we
just heard in that sound bite asking for
him to step in he actually said in this
oped for the Washington Post that he
rejected the idea of even a ceasefire he
said that he did agree with and he was
advocating for humanitarian pauses but
he said that if there's a ceasefire then
it will just be an opportunity that
Hamas exploits to rebuild their
stockpile of rockets and regroup uh
regroup their their Fighters so it seems
that that appeal uh from abass has
fallen really on deaf ears he did also
talk uh President Biden in his his oped
about the plight of the Palestinian
people um saying that he was sadden and
I believe that his heart was breaking
because of that situation uh he also
talked very briefly about the fact that
the US is trying to help increase the
flow of humanitarian assistance getting
into Gaza but that was only a very brief
mention really what he really wanted to
get into was a long-term plan even as
we're in the midst of this he was
talking about reuniting as you say Neeve
uh the occupied West Bank and the Gaza
under the control of the Palestinian
Authority he didn't mention how that
would be done what the mechanism would
be if there would be elections and
that's a bit of a fny point because the
Palestinian Authority hasn't had an
election since 2006 even though uh it's
controlling uh the occupied uh West Bank
in the intervening uh period so we'll
have to see how this all plays out first
but he's getting quite ahead of himself
in talking about an outcome uh well
there's a situation that the United
Nations says on the ground in Gaza a lot
of people are in immediate danger of
starvation and John there are these
reports of concern disapproval perhaps
in a number of government departments
within Biden's Administration about what
Biden's doing when it comes to Bringing
about an end to these hostilities what
more has been
said yeah there's definitely different
strains of thought there's been a letter
uh this week by more than 500 members of
government agencies anonymously saying
protesting basically against President
Biden's support of Israel but there's
also been a letter from more than a 100
former members of his administration and
uh President Obama's administration
saying that they support it so I think
there's definitely two camps here in the
United States and that's not just the
government it's also obviously public
opinion there's been a poll this week by
reuter and nipo uh in which uh uh just
under a third of people uh say that the
United States shouldn't be supporting uh
Israel and that 68% of people uh agree
that there with a statement that there
should be a ceasefire in negotiations
that Israel should do that so I think
public opinion uh is going to only get
more important as we get closer to the
presidential elections we're still a
year away from that at the moment right
John many thanks for that public opinion
and uh foreign policy seem to be going
in different directions thank you